Hi everyone and welcome to Tuesday and
today we are doing a lunch and learn part
of the South African Azure User Group.
Yesterday I quoted this interesting
statistic that we were 2209 members.
We have grown overnight to 2213 members
I'm hoping.
I'm hoping that one of them at least is
on the call today and just for the sake
of time.
Going to talk around that today we are
doing Tuesday.
I should have indented that, I apologize.
Today is Tuesday the 28th of October and
we're doing the data deep drive,
so selecting the right Azure data
architecture.
Ian was quite particularly with me when
he says not a database architecture,
it's the data architecture.
Thanks.
He's going to talk about that.
As of yesterday, we've had some changes,
so we've created a GitHub so that all of
the content is available after the fact,
and you'll notice that you can stalk the
speaker over LinkedIn,
that you can see the folder with the
recording and the transcripts.
As well as the meetup URL in case it
helps with your admin in some way.
We have tried to make this as pretty as
we can and we'd love any feedback.
So moving on from a code of conduct point
of view,
this is mandatory because we are a subset
of the global Azure.
Community. And with that,
in the nicest possible way,
we ask you to include everyone,
no matter their orientation or views.
And if there's any abuse of anyone,
we will just politely evict you. However,
talking about people who are polite and
who don't need to be evicted,
I want to introduce.
Introduce Ian Van Niekek and Ian will
talk about himself. I did tell you, Ian,
Yeah.
that I've got you because you said you
had that wave, but I've got you.
Um.
So Ian will introduce himself.
He is one of the cleverest people that
you'll meet in a hurry who knows how to
talk about data.
And he's got a really,
really interesting history that I'm not
going to spoil. And with that,
today Ian is going to be talking about
how to select the right Azure.
Data architecture because he does like to
talk about Azure.
Do you like what I did there, Ian?
Yeah, I see. Um, you used all of that. Uh,
that clever AI stuff, yeah.
Yes, used all of the clever AI stuff, yes,
and I've reserved your likeness.
So with that,
I'm going to hand over to you, Ian,
Yeah.
for you to please introduce yourself and
introduce your topic.
Yeah, good. Good afternoon everyone.
Like I I briefly briefly said to you
earlier,
I've been in the data realm for quite a
bit bit of years.
I started off with some a little bit of
data visualizations way back in the day.
And then I progressively worked with
pipelines, data modelling,
eventually ended up as a data architect,
one of the big banks and I got tired of
doing it for big banks and started doing
it for myself and yeah, currently.
A consultant on creating up the data,
the data capability at Cyberlogic.
So today and let me quickly start sharing
this side, right.
So I wanted to give a little bit of
context before I just go into what type.
Of.
What type of services that we can use for
data architecture in the Azure Express,
right?
And please, this is a interactive session.
Please ask questions while I'm going.
It might just spoke some additional stuff,
right? Yeah.
So we're going to look at what is data
architecture, right,
and just define it briefly.
And then why does it matter?
Why do we want to look after our data
architecture?
Why don't we just store everything in the
database and go and look for it in there?
Then we're going to go into a little bit
of the data blueprint or data blueprint,
the typical data architecture.
And then I'll go into a bit of a deep
dive around some of the typical patterns
that we find there and some of the Azure
services that we can use.
And then I'm going to give you a little
bit of an idea where to start,
what questions to ask just in general.
um around some of the data architecture,
right? Okay, cool.
OK. So, So what,
what is data architecture, right?
So with the data architecture,
you can think about it as a a plan or a a
a blueprint of how do we consume?
And expose data in.
A company, right.
So that's consumption of data,
moving of data, storage of data,
as well as the governance of data.
And we then have the analytics here at
the bottom, right.
So you can think about the data store,
the data sources.
As the individual people, right,
collecting the data across across the
city,
then the pipelines would be the roads and
then the network moving the data from the
people into the varying destinations.
Storages is where where the people live,
like the neighborhoods and like
neighborhoods have got different
densities and people move in and out in
different places.
Then we've got some governance and this
this is.
The law, right? So um.
What do we need to keep in mind around
security?
How do we store in the the information?
And this in a city metaphor context,
that's that's the policing, right?
And then lastly we've got the analytics,
right? So all of these are more.
Digital enablement, right?
So technical enablement for us to get to
the analytics and to get to the analytics,
we need to have all of these components
in there and we eventually want to answer
the business question, right? So.
It's it's putting a blueprint together to
answer this type of business question. Uh,
OK.
OK, So what does it matter, right? Um.
We don't want to start putting data on
storing data and at the end of the day we
realize, well,
no one's using it and it's costing us a
lot of lot of money and we can't use it
in other facets.
Of the business, all right.
So when we start building out the data
architecture,
these are some of the principles that we
and depending on who we chat to you,
it's going to differ.
But in our capability we focus on these,
right?
So you want the first one is for you want
to.
To build trust and reliability on the
data.
So it means that needs to be accurate and
it needs to be where you're expecting it
to be by the expected time.
To make some business decisions from that,
then also we want to make it scalable and
that's where the the cloud platforms are
quite good.
We want to make sure that the
architecture and the tech grows with the
amount of data that you start consuming.
It's not and that links into the cost
effectiveness as well, right?
So you will want to start with a.
A 15 cluster server if you really just
need a PC under your desk,
I mean cost efficiency.
So just linking into the scalability,
you don't want to start big,
but we also want to make sure that the
storage and the processes that we use is
fit.
Purpose. If it's not,
it's gonna rack up a lot of costs and and
your typical like the the veracity of the
the data or the how quickly the data
comes in and gets stored.
That also affects that cost cost
effectiveness and that's specific.
That's exactly why we want to look at the
business question first, right?
What business value do we wanna add?
Otherwise we're gonna start ingesting all
of this data.
A real time basis and you're gonna play
quite a big ball,
but you're not actually answering a
specific business question, right?
Point #4 that we've got on here is
interoperability.
So I think these two go hand in hand
together. We wanna make sure.
We can start having views and use data
sets across the enterprises and break
down some of those silos and then
collaborate effectively across teams.
And then make sure that once we can do
that, we want to use analytics and AI.
In my opinion, AI is a little bit.
They need to be a very good use case for
AI,
but in general we use analytics quite a
lot in our environment and as the.
Or it goes garbage in, garbage out, right?
So we want to save it in a central
repository that can get accessed by
everyone,
but it needs to be of good quality, right?
And that's why the data architecture
really matters in our case.
OK, cool. Any questions as far, um,
before we go on? Um.
No, none. Cool. So I just, I've got to.
Two little pictures over here, right?
It all speaks to the previous ones.
This is a conceptual design just to to to
give over some of the the concepts and
then we'll go into some of the technical.
Design in the bottom of right.
So a typical blueprint for a data
architecture is this.
It's gonna change a little bit depending
on where you implement it and who uses it,
but essentially you've got data sources.
You want to store the data that comes in
via pipelines in some shape or form.
So these sources can be structured,
semi structured data.
This is typically Jason.
Unstructured data is typically PDF
documents or just free text fields that
someone.
Captured somewhere.
We could also see I've got semi
structured twice,
so we're gonna slow it twice and then
we've got some rational databases and
some additional data Azure data services
like.
A I, for example,
the Foundry and then Internet of Things
is all of the connected stuff, right?
So that's some of the typical types of
data sources that we can that we can
consume and then we use pipelines.
To ingest it right into the storage layer.
This storage layer is because you you've
got the ingestion, but you want of events.
So they they could be some of these IoT
devices feeds real-time events through
these pipelines.
Don't want to store it for historical
purposes or some use cases,
but you also have batch processing from
databases like the real time databases
going into the storage layer.
We I'll get you to some of the the data
governance in a minute, but we.
We would like to to apply governance as a
or governance by design.
So stuff like security that gets mainly
applied over here.
Once we we've got the data stored,
we'll start processing and enriching it.
So typical from typical example would be
on a process data across data silos.
The the one domains got customer
transactions in the one domain.
Mine some of the customer information and
you want to typically join those together
to get some real time scoring or
something like that once it's been
processed.
We expose it in analytical reports.
It's a little bit outdated because
there's multiple ways and you'll see it
here at the bottom,
but the typical use case is dashboards
and data visualizations.
These days it's API endpoints that can be
consumed real time.
There's a multitude of words that we can
get data out,
but what we're really after is how do we
answer a business question, right?
So like I said in the beginning,
we have to have all of this in place in
this to make sure we can actually answer
this,
these questions in real time or not real
time as effectively as possible. OK.
And then there's a little block here over
here.
It is where security data management and
orchestration comes in.
So the security is is basically
self-expandatory.
So to make sure that the data that's
being moved is encrypted.
It's encrypted to address only people
that should be able to see the data can
see the data.
Right.
Not exposing sensitive data like HR data
to the whole company, that type of stuff,
right.
Data management is just making sure that
all of this information gets to it and
that goes hand in hand with the
orchestration it just gets.
To where it needs to be, right?
Making sure if it doesn't get to where it
needs to be, it we get alerts,
notifications proactively so we can start
looking at that.
Yeah, message. I'll see who ends up.
Thanks Ian.
I just so maybe this is a silly question,
but would you do same sort of
architecture or have a blueprint for
archive data or data that needs to be
retained but is not part of the whole?
Business use cases anymore. It's old data.
Yes.
So,
so typically how we we handle that is in
the the data storage layer, right.
So we'll we'll set up retention periods
based on some of the use cases.
So it goes through a whole life cycle
where it gets used actively once it's not
actively being used.
It's quite easy with services like Azure
at the moment where you set a specific
time range. If it passes that time range,
it actually moves it from hot data tier
into a cold data tier and eventually I
can't remember the tiers, but it's hot,
cold and in frigid basically so.
Depending the cost goes down,
but the manager know how you retrieve it
Mm.
takes longer as well, right?
So it typically gets the funding in this
section over here.
Oh.
Oh, Mr. Blank.
I wanted to know in this I might be
running ahead,
so if I am just just pull me back.
What is the manifestation of this look
Hey.
like in terms of a blueprint?
Because on the bottom I can see what it
would look like in terms of a landing
zone design and we can infer that landing
Yeah.
zone design into a when there's lots of.
Ways of expressing that from an
infrastructure's code point of view.
But if we look at the logical stuff,
like if you were working and Jaco in the
Yes.
beginning of the call said that he's a
DevOps engineer,
what would you give to Jaco and what
would you give to business?
Yes.
Yeah. So what we typically give, OK,
so from a typically the short answer from
the business point is this layer gets
exposed to to the business, right.
Mhm.
So dashboards.
From a DevOps perspective,
this is where the data management and the
orchestration comes in, right?
So stuff like key vault.
I don't think I stole this earlier this
morning,
but it's not on yet this bottom layer
over here.
Would be.
This is not being depicted over here,
right?
But stuff in here would be keyboard,
so secret management, password management,
dev OPS. So are we typically?
The DevOps engineer would sit here and he
would help us deploy our pipelines right
OK.
into a production environment, setting up,
setting up DevOps pipelines for data
pipelines, right?
So pipelines for pipelines, so there's.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
There's a lot of DevOps in this this
space,
particularly setting up the environment,
setting up the DevOps pipelines.
Yeah.
How do you migrate the productionized
stuff from a a dev environment into
production environment, right?
And this is this layer over here.
Typical stuff would be the orchestration
like Airflow, DevOps,
key vault management,
all of that type of information around
here.
Wonderful.
Cool.
Any other questions? Um.
Oh, I'm gonna,
I'm gonna just jump into an actual real
like naming the the some of the some of
the the stack and just bringing it back
to some of the logical architecture,
right? So.
Um.
We we used to have a,
let me start at the beginning, right.
So we've got in this example we've got
Dynamics 365.
There's a lot of non unstructured,
semi structured and rational data coming
on. So rational data typically is.
Databases semi structured information
like I said previously as Jason and we we
we tend to get some XML files as well,
right? But that then gets pushed.
Into this this pipeline.
So we connect to this this environment
via pipelines.
These pipelines are typically Event Hub
or Data Factory or Synapse pipelines.
All right, so.
So Data Factory is more for the more
batch processing type of environment
where you say bring back a lot of
information all at once.
The Event Hub is more for streaming real
time data from IoT devices, a typical.
Um, use case that we currently have is uh.
Vehicle assets,
so of course or that's got IoT devices in
there, right?
So they send all of the information in
here.
We combine it with some of the the look
up information that we get from the
source systems and we store both of them
in.
Are the SQL databases or IDLS which is
storage accounts right?
So this is what we typically refer to
landing zone or in this diagram is
storage right?
Um.
There's a lot of theory around how you
store it into the ADLS environment as
well,
but that's probably a whole different
chat and lunch and learn on its own.
It moves through various levels in here.
We think to keep away from using SQL
databases as a typical storage
environment.
Just because it gets too expensive too
quickly. So we use the IDLS,
it's relatively cheap and we can we can
store a lot of information, right,
which helps with the archiving as well.
Matthew,
it's a little bit different if you want
to start archiving.
In the the SQL database environment, um,
we do have.
SQL databases in in the storage
environment as well,
but we do use that as a configuration
database, not as a storage container,
right? OK.
So once all of that information then
lands in the the IDLS environment,
you can then link it up into Fabric.
So Fabric is a interesting one.
So Microsoft has.
Has consolidated and tried to make our
lives a little bit easier with some.
Fabric where it consolidates all of a
bunch of a bunch of the services into a
one offering.
So you have one like and then on top of
one like where you'll do the processing,
you'll then have a SQL analytics endpoint.
For all intents and purposes,
SQL Analytics endpoint is really just a.
SQL, you can create it as SQL, etcetera,
right?
So this is just a a SQL-esque environment
where you can then get your information
from here.
So it's basically a pass through one like
into here.
Something to note about one lake is you
don't only need to to link in ADLS.
Relatively recent they have added
shortcuts to external.
To external vendors as well.
I think you can put AWSS in here.
I do not recall, I can't recall GCP also,
but essentially what they're trying to do
with One Lake is make it one place that
you can get all of your information real
time.
Or batched or archived, right?
On top of this you can then start
collaborating and consuming your
information. Again,
this they use pipelines in here.
So pipelines is basically pulling the
data out of the the storage and
processing environment,
doing something with it.
And then pushing it back into the one
like same with the spark balls and then
the analytical endpoint is where all of
these like services can then start using
it right. So in a real time,
a bit more of a real time use case.
You'd get a client credit score,
for example,
that's being fed by a bunch of telematics
from a client. Yeah,
it goes through the one leg and then it
serves it by the API into a function so
that you can get that more real time.
It's broad use cases work similar to that.
We want to have more management and
reporting use cases and flow differently,
right?
So data factory and server in a Power BI
or Power BI dashboard.
Yahoo.
So just out of curiosity,
we what we basically do is we also use
Yes.
event harvest and then we use the stream
analytics jobs to to get the data into
the storages and then from there we use
Databricks and Medallion architecture.
Yes, yeah.
To just refine the data basically with
the SQL analytics endpoint,
would you suggest that would be the best
way to make the basically the gold layer
available to business?
Available. It depends on the text,
the text, the tick stack, right?
The later bricks is.
I'm not that well versed in data bricks,
but fabric is basically a.
A a Microsoft version of the Databricks,
right? So they they.
So you can you can even expose it via
Databricks or you can write do your
OK.
computation,
the box box bools in Databricks,
write it back to ideal AS.
And serve the data as a with a serverless
endpoint as well.
So there's there's a few ways you can
skin a cat.
There's also stuff like Synapse that you
can use, right?
So you can do your computations in in
Databricks there.
Yes.
Send it back into the IDLS world and then
put a SQL Serverless on top of IDLS,
which is a Synapse function, right?
And that's also pretty similar to the the
analytical endpoint.
Okay, cool.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Awesome. Any other questions?
Happiness then. OK, so way to start,
right?
So there's there's been a lot of ticky
ticky talk,
but if the window with the rubber hits
the road,
there's a few questions we need to ask,
right? So.
1st is know what business problem you're
trying to solve, right?
It's very cool for the techies,
especially to start fiddling around with
tech, right? But at the end of the day,
there's some value proposition that we're
trying to solve for for business.
And that's that's very important that we
we first define what that business
problem is right that we want to solve
and it doesn't need to be you can have to
take in place.
I think we what I mean more about know
the business problem is how do we.
What is the shortest route to get to
value first? All right,
it doesn't need to be a big problem
you're trying to solve,
but it needs to be a business problem
that we're trying to solve.
Some of us are fortunate enough that
there is no deck currently available,
so we've green fields, but.
More likely than not,
there is a a current state in in there.
So it's either on Prem that we need to
replicate into the cloud or we've got
some of the the the previous components
in but not all.
So I think it's very important that we we
define our current state.
And then make sure we we do like some
steps or we define the future state,
the current state and then define the
intermediate steps and how we want to get
there, right.
But we first need to understand where we
are at at the moment, right?
And then instead of.
This architecture right this I'm using
Microsoft as a example,
but this could be the architecture you
can you can duplicate this architecture
in AWS in GCP right?
So this is instead of defining the tools
that you want to use with a specific.
Architecture set some clear principles,
right?
Say as a principle we don't want to
consume.
We want to do incremental loads of data,
right?
We don't want to consume the whole data
set every day, right?
That's a silly example, right?
Or as a a principle,
naming standards is a very basic
principle that.
Doesn't get applied constantly and
becomes a big, big headache later on,
right?
So define the principles that you would
like to implement in the data architects
as part of the data architecture rather
than tools.
Tools, right? Then start small.
Get a small business case, right?
Don't try to solve a fraud in the whole
company. Maybe try and I.
The way clients are doing specific
fraudulent transactions, right?
Small data sets put the the architecture
through its paces and incrementally
improve, right?
Which is my next point is bold
iteratively, right? So.
Keep in mind where you want to go, right?
But build iteratively if if your use case
is.
Sufficient just to store data for the
time being in a ADLS. That's fine,
but don't know you at least need to use a
ADLS account rather than starting with
SQL as a base and.
Another one of the core principles we
love by in our team is design for
maintenance.
We can build it quite quickly with all of
the AI tools and the the drag and drops,
but it it's not necessarily sustainable
over the long run, right?
So I think one of the.
The principles that you need to think
about is how can we design A pipeline for
all a architecture to be as?
As efficient and maintenance friendly as
possible over the long run.
You know that's that's where I would say
let's you know to start I think start by
answering all of these questions that
will give you good principles and
guidelines on where.
In the architecture design,
you need to stop, right? Yeah.
So I think we've answered a few questions
throughout the whole thing. It's Kolk.
What's up?
OK, I've got a I'm not a data expert,
but got a few questions.
So where would master data sort of that
concept fit into the architecture?
Sure.
Yeah, so you know, just go.
And they the cleansing.
They the cleansing as well.
Sure.
So the data cleansing is is usually part
of this data,
data management orchestration part, right.
So that happens throughout the process
and the medallion architecture that Jaco
referred to earlier.
That's also part of it,
but the short answer is it happens in
multiple stages throughout.
So cleaning your data,
you'll do the technique what we call
technical data cleansing before we store
it, right?
So removing some of the null the the
empty values.
Making sure it's costed as the correct
data types. We'll do this in this step,
OK.
right?
Business rules and business cleaning will
happen in the the processing and
enrichment phase, right?
Master data management depends on who you
talk to, but.
Exactly.
My, my.
My opinion is it needs to be part of the
source systems, right?
This the the master data management
basically sits over this and and this is
one of the feedbacks into the master data
management.
Master data management is then fixed at
source and.
Then it comes in here again, right.
So it's a little bit of a a feedback loop
in here. I'm just making some notes.
I I like the questions. I'm gonna,
Yep.
So and then obviously that fits in with
your data from operational systems coming
you know, answer my pranky with it,
you know?
to your master data and managing it
through that. Yeah, OK. And then I mean.
Yes.
It's quite difficult to have that most
data management is a whole story by
itself, I would assume.
Yes, so, so,
so that's why I say it depends.
That's an ideal world, right?
We it's a separate system.
Practically what happens in the field is
they've got some type of master data
management running inside of the the data
storage, right?
Mm.
OK.
So it comes in here, it looks at this.
I'm gonna say look up for lack of a
better word and then cleans it as it goes
into the storage, right?
Hmm.
But that still means the data in the the
source environment is still dirty, right?
Yes, exactly now.
So that's why I say it's a little bit
more practical to take it through here
and then store it as a clean version.
But to solve the problem holistically,
Yeah.
you need to fix it at source,
and that's why it says.
Because one system might affect another
system,
Correct.
so you have data flowing so it becomes a
bit of a chicken egg situation.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly.
And then transactional data.
I mean if if you ingest transactional
Um.
data, would it be?
Be best to store it sort of raw and then
only process parts out of that, yeah.
Yes. So that, yeah.
So that's exactly where the the the
medallion architecture comes in, right.
So it might be worth while touching on it,
OK.
just maybe briefly.
So we've got 33 levels right of medallion
architecture. It's the bronze,
silver and the gold.
That all sits in this data storage layer,
right?
So bronze is a one to one replication of
our source system, right?
Going from bronze to our silver
environment,
we start doing some technical cleanups.
And then start aligning it a little bit
more to the what the business,
the business use case is at the end of
the day, right.
And then when we move it into gold,
we do a lot of the transformation and
enrichments and that then looks almost
exactly like to answer.
So we move it from an OLTP system.
In the OLAP system from bronze to to gold,
right and that then aligns with the.
Thank you.
So on the bronze layer it's a lot more
system or source aligned where on the
gold side it's a lot more business,
business use case aligned.
The last question,
so different you you can't replicate this
over environment obviously.
So this will be your production
environment unless you have some big,
some big company like the old mutuals or
So.
something probably.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, but so,
so it depends, right.
So we've got small companies that run the
same thing, but multiples of things,
Mhm.
right.
We you can have multiples of things.
What we found though is.
Typically the users want to test on
production environment, right?
So what typically happens is the storage
and the the pipeline environments.
We have a dev and a production
environment,
so pipelines and data data sets.
Mhm.
Where we actually process the data,
you have one big pool,
but it writes back either to the product
production or dev environment and
sometimes the the company split up the
analytical and reporting sites, right?
But because it's based on production in
source.
Mm.
Uh, data.
They they tend to use the environment,
right? Um, you know?
Cool. Thanks.
Oh, Jaco,
I saw your hand was up briefly as well.
Do you still have a question or?
No,
my comment was just towards the
validation of the data.
That is what we use our stream analytics
job for.
So as we pick up the events from Event
OK.
Hub,
we first validate it and then it goes to
storage.
OK,
what what type of validations do you
apply on on that?
Is it like technical validations to make
sure it's in or would like?
Yeah, it's it's basic, sorry, yeah,
it's it's basically like contracts just
to ensure that everything that is needed
is is provided.
Mhm.
OK, that's pretty cool.
I think that's a good a good use case for
for that.
And do you guys use that data that you
pump through the Event Hub in real time
as well or is the the Event Hub just used
for?
Uh, the ingestion port.
No,
it's basically just for for for analytics,
so it's after the fact and not real time.
OK, cool.
Any other questions? Oh, sorry, last call.
So so that's also that's also we so
getting data from external systems that
data factory doesn't fit because it's too
expensive and it's for running continuous
like if you have instead of and also
event hubs won't necessarily work for.
Yeah.
We have to feed data from external
systems or ingest it to actually feed it
Yeah. So do you? Yeah, yes. So, so,
so they this, there's a few stuff here,
in.
So we're using Azure Functions and
whatever to try and pull that data in.
right.
So we initially started with data
factories running the pipelines and to
your point, it was too expensive, right.
Then we said OK,
well we need to use something different.
So we actually was in the the ingestion
phase.
We're using sparkles to pull in data.
So we we technically using.
We're still using Data Factory,
but it's more for orchestration of the
spark pools, right?
Then actually using the pipelines and the
data flows for the computation, right?
That that brought down the cost a lot.
Then we said, well,
we could possibly take down the cost even
further and that's where we started using
logic apps.
We still use pipelines as an
orchestration method and we've got a
database that that sits over here which
is configuration based, right.
So you say I want to bring in AB and C
and that.
Then goes the Data Factory loads the the
config information from here and it
executes the other logic apps,
spark pools or pipelines depending on
where we're getting the information from
and that that we've seen like.
That that's the cheapest that we can get
away with a a serverless environment.
OK, so it's a viable.
If someone says why are you doing it like
this?
It is actually a viable option because
Yeah.
I've done logic apps,
Azure functions and then Azure durable
Yeah.
functions because that does orchestration
instead of having data factory.
Yes.
So and and the other thing is the other
reason why we're using functions and
Spark pools is or Pi Spark is it's a lot
more flexible than the the pipelines that
they that that's in there, right.
So especially when it comes to pulling
data from.
Um.
We found that that's very difficult to.
It's possible,
but because API's authentications is so
varied, we use a function app.
Pentication. Mm-hmm.
It just makes it a lot easier to bring in
the data with that,
Yep.
but we still use the Data Factory as an
orchestration layer.
Yeah.
Yeah,
you have one generic process that goes
Yep.
and says this is what I extract,
transform,
load and then it'll call another function
to go do authentication or whatever it
Exactly. Um, you know.
might be. OK, OK.
Um.
And what about using Python? Sort of.
Where would that if you had a Python,
Yeah, so, so,
so Python was is in the spark pools,
your own custom Python?
Smock pools, OK.
so you so the the the spark pools can sit
in architecturally.
It's not really a part of.
Either fabric or data factory, right?
It technically sits over here.
So you can refer to the spark pools.
You spin up a cluster that sits over here.
I think the minimum is 3 nodes in by
about $2.00 an hour of processing, right?
But.
You then in the Spark pools you use Spark.
You refer to the data sets,
you bring the data sets in from ADLS.
You do your computation,
you read it either you write it back in
here or you store it in the one lake and
we still use the data fabric or synapse
pipeline.
To do the orchestration,
decide which which Python notebooks we
need to execute and when it needs to
execute.
OK,
I see there's a new data wrangler for
Visual Studio code.
Oh, I haven't seen that yet. Yeah, no.
Yeah.
So I just that's that's a question sort
of that. That's why I was wondering. OK,
don't worry.
Yeah, you can ask a question,
but I I don't promise I'm going to have
I just saw it recently,
so that's why I'm asking.
an answer. Yeah, yeah,
I haven't seen it yet though.
Oh, any other questions?
Oh, if you want to, guys want to.
I'm just going to use my little mouse and
Mr. Blank,
do you have some some closing comment?
I just want to let you know that your 10
minute warning is here.
Yeah.
OK, I'm finished.
So if there's no other questions,
But there is the data, the data,
what's it now? The fabric. Yeah, fabric.
there's a QR code, yeah.
So I mean,
I went to the presentations the other day
Yes, this.
about it,
but there's very vague really where
that's going.
Yeah.
I'm not sure.
Does one sell it to your business?
This is like down a line stores.
It seems to me it's like version one
So.
almost.
Yes.
So what Microsoft did with Fabric is they
did a very,
I don't want to say very quick,
but they did a MVP, right.
So they they have a minimal viable
Mm.
product and they released it.
They're working with the community
basically to improve it as they go along.
Right.
So the the downside with that is you
don't have all of the functions that you
would have had with Data Factory or
Synapse from day one, right?
So but the the other side is you can
start using fabric a lot quicker.
And have input in in getting a day, right?
Um.
That being said,
is public is definitely the way Microsoft
will be going.
The the advice that we give our clients
at the moment and it's changing a little
bit is stick to what you stick to Synapse
because we usually go with Synapse,
but stick to Synapse and literally
reevaluate it in three months, right?
Some of the clients is in some like if
you asked me this question six months
back, I would have said listen,
let's stick with Synapse for now.
If you ask it to me,
I'm going to say it depends if you use
some of the the more,
the more technical or the more advanced
functionalities.
Fabric is a little bit lacking on some of
the stuff, but it's getting there.
It's a lot better than six months ago,
right?
So we are moving some of our clients over
from Synapse into the data,
not the data factory,
the the fabric capacities.
So put it on the technology radar.
Yes, exactly.
Oh, thank you.
Oh, Bing.
How's it guys? Sorry, can you hear me?
I just want to check.
Hey, yeah, yeah, can we hear you?
Sure.
Um, so just on the on the fabric topic,
um.
What what are the your you know ingestion
options that you have with in fabric you
know so is it data gateway?
That is the main tool that you use and
and what about if you know you have
Yeah.
customers where they don't want stuff to
flow over the Internet,
maybe they've got express route or large,
large data.
Yes.
Now how do you how do you get the traffic
or the data?
Cross.
So so so fabric is you can it's basically
they they took data factory and migrated
into data fabric.
So the way you get data into fabric is
basically the same ways that you you get
the data into factory IDF.
Right. But that being said,
is it depends on the way.
That the client prefers, right?
You can have a very secure VPN gated
gateway or tunnel and still connected to
fabric.
It's a lot of effort and it's very
technical, right?
So it's a lot of effort to get that up.
Yeah.
It's VPN gateways,
but essentially fabric can just see that
one database with a tunnel via the VPN,
right? Alternatively,
OK.
what you can have is a gateway server.
In the client environment,
they call it a SHIR runtime integration
runtime.
Can't remember what there is an SHIR host
Self self hosted drunken.
integration server hosted, self hosted,
self hosted integration run so that you
Yeah.
use the.
SHIR on a server.
That server is essentially the gateway
into the whole network, right?
The other thing is what we usually do is
OK.
we use SHIR because all of the traffic
between the factory and the SHIR server
is encrypted, right?
And then we just give the SHIR server
visibility to the data that we want to
see, right?
So we don't expose it to the whole
network,
we just expose it to parts of the network
Yes.
that we want to see.
And we haven't had any problems thus far
with it,
but it also depends on how security you
OK.
really want to go.
So you can make it very,
very complex or you can keep it simple.
All right, so the integration runtime,
obviously it's sort of a VM sitting
privately.
So as long as favorite solution can see
the public IP address,
then it should be able to connect OK.
Yes.
Correct. Yeah.
Thanks.
Oh.
Any other questions?
So there's a QR code for you guys if you
want to connect on LinkedIn or just reach
out.
But I do think Nick also put my my e-mail
address on on his side as well.
So if you guys,
I did.
if you have any other questions,
please feel free to give me a shout and
we can correspond accordingly, OK?
That's amazing, Ian.
Thank you so much and thank you so much
for for being willing to share and to to
give your knowledge away.
Sure.
So thank you very much.
Yeah, big, big pleasure.
All right. So with that,
we're going to give everybody back 3
I see.
minutes of the day and we thank you for
joining us on today's lunch and learn.
And as I said earlier,
the session is being recorded and Ian,
I expect there to be a long tale of.
Folks watching the recording,
so watch out for that and you may even
get questions over the next year.
Oh, happiness. Happy to help. Thanks guys.
Have a good one.
Thank you everyone and bye bye. Cheers,
bye.
Thanks.
Thank you. Great. Cheers.
Thanks guys. Bye bye.